So, let's go talk about constraints.
We already saw this constraint here.
Which is basically, a constraint
is exactly what it sounds like,
you're saying this column has some
sort of rule about it as opposed to
something like the body of text,
right, that exists on recipe.
There's just no rules for that, you can
put literally whatever you want there.
Constraints is basically saying like,
in order for this to be inserted here,
it has to satisfy this rule
before I'm gonna let you do that.
So we've seen one.
One was, That there must be
a unique combination between recipe_id and
ingredient_id, that's a constraint.
If you remember unique that we did
earlier on the title of ingredients,
unique is considered a constraint as well.
Primary key, that's a constraint,
technically.
Foreign keys,
technically a constraint, right,
cuz a constraint like this has
to exist in the other table.
Let's do one for our types, right,
cuz we either have meat,
fruit, vegetable, or other.
So we can basically say this has
to exist amongst these things or
I won't let it in here.
That's essentially an enumerated type.
And I use that word kind of cautiously cuz
there's actually a separate concept in
Postgres called enumerated types
that you could also use here.
There's a bunch of ways to do it.
I'm just gonna show you the way
to do with this check thing.
So let's go ahead and
type that into our table.
We can say, ALTER TABLE ingredients.
ADD CONSTRAINT type_enims or
type_check_enums, whatever,
it's just whatever you wanna have
it show up as, doesn't matter.
CHECK, and you're gonna say,
type has to be IN.
Has to be one of these, a meat,
a fruit, a vegetable, and
other, And that's it.
So now,
we have a check constraint in here.
So if I try and do something like this,
which I'm just gonna copy that,
INSERT INTO ingredients,
where title, image, type.
So this right here going into type
is obviously not a type, right?
It's not in our meat,
fruit, vegetable, or other,
it's going to fail, cuz it's gonna say,
this failed that obviously
not a type is not in our meat,
fruit, vegetable, or other.
So it's just allowing you to set some
rules and boundaries around your data.
And at this point,
it kind of bears mentioning.
This is one of the primary
points of using an SQL database,
particularly Postgres or
MySQL, one of these.
Is that, if you have highly structured
data with schema that have a lot of rules
around it, like this can be this and
can't be that, and should be this and
can't be less than this,
SQL is really good at stuff like this.
It's really good if you can give it
specific rules of enforcement of those
rules stay consistent.
If you go into things like Redis, and
Mongo DB, and some of these other ones,
they have some ability to do some of that.
But it's not necessarily as built for
whereas SQL is like it just thrives on
constraints and rules and stuff like that.
So, yeah, this is the primary use
case of when you wanna use SQL.
>> I'm assuming that this would work
similarly to the not null constraint,
where you could probably give
it a default if you had a type.
I'm wondering if you had a type in
there that didn't meet that constraint.
When you're adding a constraint, I'm
assuming you can default that similarly.
>> Yeah.
>> Check, okay.
>> Well, hold on.
The answer is it's gonna fail if
we tried to do this, and we had a,
I don't know, spice in there or
something like that.
I imagine and I've never tried this,
there's something to say like,
on fail do something like this,
on conflict set to be a default.
But really, what you're gonna do is you
just wanna go update all those yourself
before you do that.
So I'm showing you all these
ALTER TABLE kind of commands just so
you know that once you set a table,
you don't have to living down,
that you have to drop it to recreate it.
You can alter them,
it's really expensive on big tables.
I remember we went over to Reddit,
we had to run database migrations
from one schema to another.
It would take hours, because Reddit has
huge, huge tables as you might imagine.
It has every comment
that in every user and
every upvote that's ever existed in there.
They're huge tables.
So you really don't wanna run
ALTER TABLE haphazardly, right?
You need to plan for it.
You probably has like scheduled
downtime and things like that.
So if you're adding a constraint that
didn't exist before, in that case,
I probably wouldn't even add it.
It's probably not worth it.
But if I was gonna do it, what I would
do is I would go update manually all
the things that were in conflict, and
then I would run the alter table.